Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions
The Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at McAllen (HECM) is an industry-leading institution committed to supporting the educational needs of Texans with top-tier educational programs. Students at the HECM will fulfill individual career goals, enhance continued economic development of the Rio Grande Valley and reinforce one of the hardest working job markets in the country.

All students seeking admission to the Higher Education Center at McAllen will need to complete the application for Texas A&M University. Students applying to majors that are offered both in College Station and McAllen may select McAllen as their preferred location on their application.
WHEN CAN I APPLY?
Fall 2024 — Higher Education Center at McAllen
August 1, 2023 – March 1, 2024

Spring 2024 — College Station & HECM
August 1, 2023 – October 15, 2023

Early Action Engineering Deadline*
October 15
Engineering Application Deadline Details:  https://admissions.tamu.edu/apply/freshman
Apply as a Freshman
A freshman applicant is a current high school student (with or without college credit) or a high school graduate with no college credit earned after high school graduation.
Apply as a Transfer Applicant
A transfer applicant is a student who has graduated high school and has enrolled in a post-secondary institution (with or without credit earned) during a fall or spring semester.
Apply as a Readmit
Students who were previously enrolled in a degree-granting program at Texas A&M University and did not complete their program of study can apply for readmission to the university.
Contact the Rio Grande Valley Prospective Student Center
Phone: (956) 683-8647
Rio Grande Valley Prospective Student Center, 500 N Jackson Rd, Suite A-7, Pharr, TX 78577
Why Higher Education Center at McAllen?
Students at the Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at McAllen (HECM) have the best of both worlds in that they benefit from being a part of the larger Texas A&M University family yet attend classes on a campus with a small college feel.
A wide variety of events and programs at the HECM also further enhance the connection throughout the Aggie community.
AFFORDABILITY
A degree from Texas A&M is a great investment – one that continues to appreciate over time. We're consistently recognized as a top value in higher education, based on our combination of academic quality and affordability. An education from Texas A&M remains very valuable and very affordable, year after year. The Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at McAllen offers the added benefit of the low cost of living in the Rio Grande Valley. Furthermore, students who live in the Rio Grande Valley can save the cost of room and board by living at home.
SCHOLARSHIPS AND FINANCIAL AID
The Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at McAllen has a dedicated Financial Aid Advisor available to assist students year-round.
The Scholarship and Financial Aid Office is located in Suite 123.6. Students may also email hecm-financialaid@tamu.edu for assistance.
MORE INFORMATION ABOUT SCHOLARSHIPS & FINANCIAL AID  MORE INFORMATION ON UNDERGRADUATE COST OF ATTENDANCE
 A look at the exterior of the McAllen campus

Schedule a Visit
Schedule a Visit by Phone: 956-271-1307
We welcome visitors all throughout the year. Whether you're a family, a high school, or any group that is interested in learning more about the Higher Education Center at McAllen, we welcome you. Please note that all groups are required to schedule a campus visit in advance. Once a request has been submitted, a Program Coordinator will contact you with additional information. Self-guided tours are not currently available for group visits.
Orientation
NEW STUDENT CONFERENCES
Once students are accepted to the Texas A&M University Higher Education Center at McAllen, students will receive communication about the next step in the enrollment process - New Student Conference (NSC). This mandatory full-day event includes a series of presentations about services and resources available at the Higher Education Center at McAllen as well as information specific to your major.
HOWDY WEEK
After the New Student Conference, incoming students experience Howdy Week, a full week dedicated to presenting a wide array of activities, organizations, and important information for a successful first year in Aggieland. Passionate Aggies Leading McAllen (PALM) Camp is the first event of Howdy Week. It is a special event that strives to welcome incoming students into the Aggie family by sharing the traditions and values of Texas A&M University and building long-term relationships that embody the Aggie spirit. After PALM Camp, the week continues with students experiencing a series of informational sessions at the Higher Education Center at McAllen.